## Business Understanding
For this analysis, our group will be working with North Carolina Public Schools Report Card and Statistical Profiles Data sets from the years 2014 to 2017. These data sets encompass information across 4 continuous years of educational attributes in North Carolina, USA.  The data is collected from the State of North Carolina at [http://ncpublicschools.org](http://ncpublicschools.org) and made available from the Belk Endowment Educational Attainment Data Repository for North Carolina Public Schools by Dr. Jake Drew. Among other reasons, the data was collected for evaluation of public-school performance for the purpose of efficiently allocating funds to various educational initiatives. Analyses of such data are important because high-impact educational initiatives that are well-funded contribute to increased graduation rates, increased achievement at the post-secondary level, less crime, and greater economic engagement among young people. For the purpose of this exercise, our focus is on describing and predicting school performance using various school characteristics, such as type of school (elementary, middle, high, or some combination of the three), social demographics, economic demographics, and location between 2014 and 2017. The Belk Foundation's website says, "Our goal is to empower today’s workforce by creating pathways to and through postsecondary education for underrepresented students". For the sake of this analysis, we assume that better performing schools have better outcomes in postsecondary education. With North Carolina's rapidly changing demographics, it is important to take into consideration schools' unique needs when allocating funds to strategic investment initiatives. Here, we explore where funding can be best applied based on educational achievement data.

To achieve this goal, we will explore through visual and mathematical modeling which features best predict the School Performance Grade (SPG Score), a continuous measure of a school's overall success based on test scores and growth measures. The analysis will come in the form of a regression model, and accuracy of the model will be determined by the root mean-squared error (RMSE).